docs(cockpit): add doc for retrieving logs using logcli (#3210)
scaleway/docs-content: observability/cockpit/api-cli/querying-logs-with-logcli.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Retrieving logs programmatically using LogCLI

>   description: This page provides information on how to retrieve logs stored in Cockpit programmatically using LogCLI

Reviewer: optimize description

>   description: This page provides information on how to retrieve logs stored in Cockpit programmatically using LogCLI

Author: ```suggestion
  description: Discover how to use LogCLI to programmatically retrieve logs stored in Cockpit.
```

dates:
  validation: 2024-05-22
  posted: 2024-05-22
categories:
  - observability
---

This documentation page shows you how to retrieve your internal and external logs stored in Cockpit programmatically, using [LogCLI](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/query/logcli/).

Retrieving your logs programmatically can be useful in environments where automation, scalability, and integration with other systems are crucial. It enables advanced analytics, greater efficiency, and deeper insights than manual log retrieval through a user interface such as Grafana.

<Macro id="requirements" />

  - [Owner](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/identity-and-access-management/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
  - A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - [Created a token](/observability/cockpit/how-to/create-token/) with the `query` permission for logs
  - External and/or internal logs to query
  - [Installed LogCLI](https://grafana.com/docs/loki/latest/query/logcli/#installation)

## Exporting your environment variables

> Open a terminal and run the following command to export your environment variables. Make sure that you replace `<DATA_SOURCE_URL>` and `<COCKPIT_TOKEN>` with your values.

Author: ```suggestion
Open a terminal and run the following command to export your environment variables. Make sure that you replace `<DATA_SOURCE_URL>` and `<COCKPIT_TOKEN_SECRET_KEY>` with your values.
```

    ```
    export LOKI_ADDR=<DATA_SOURCE_URL>
    export LOKI_BEARER_TOKEN=<COCKPIT_TOKEN_SECRET_KEY>
    ```

    <Message type="note">
     You can retrieve your data source URL in the [Data sources tab](https://console.scaleway.com/cockpit/dataSource) under the **API URL** section.
     <Lightbox src="scaleway-data-source-url.webp" alt="" />
    </Message>

## Retrieving logs

### Retrieving an Object Storage bucket's logs

> Open a terminal and paste the following command to retrieve logs from your desired data source. For the sake of this documentation, we are retrieving logs from a Scaleway Object Storage bucket. You can replace `object_storage_bucket` with any other Scaleway resource type provided that the resource has logs available.

Author: ```suggestion
Open a terminal and paste the following command to retrieve logs from your desired data source. For the sake of this documentation, we are retrieving logs from a Scaleway Object Storage bucket. You can replace `object_storage_bucket` with any other Scaleway resource type, provided that the resource has logs available.
```

    ```
    logcli query '{resource_type="object_storage_bucket"}'
    ```
An output similar to the following should display:

```
2024/05/20 17:04:33 <DATA_SOURCE_URL>_range?direction=BACKWARD&end=1716390273303145000&limit=30&query=%7Bresource_type%3D%22object_storage_bucket%22%7D&start=1716386673303145000
```

### Retrieving a Kubernetes Kapsule cluster's logs

> Open a terminal and paste the following command to retrieve logs from your Kapsul cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
Open a terminal and paste the following command to retrieve logs from your Kapsule cluster.
```

    ```
    logcli query '{resource_type="kubernetes_cluster"}'
    ```

An output similar to the following should display:

>     ```

Reviewer: maybe cut the output to a few lines

    2024-05-22T17:33:04+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 pre_filtering_processor.go:57] Node scw-k8s-sharp-robinson-default-bfb90f82c4b949c should not be processed by cluster autoscaler (no node group config)
    2024-05-22T17:33:04+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 static_autoscaler.go:492] Calculating unneeded nodes
    2024-05-22T17:33:04+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 static_autoscaler.go:445] No unschedulable pods
    2024-05-22T17:33:04+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 filter_out_schedulable.go:87] No schedulable pods
    2024-05-22T17:33:04+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 filter_out_schedulable.go:177] 0 pods marked as unschedulable can be scheduled.
    2024-05-22T17:33:04+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 filter_out_schedulable.go:176] 0 pods were kept as unschedulable based on caching
    2024-05-22T17:33:04+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 filter_out_schedulable.go:137] Filtered out 0 pods using hints

>     2024-05-22T17:33:04+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 filter_out_schedulable.go:65] Filtering out schedulables
>     2024-05-22T17:33:04+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 static_autoscaler.go:243] Starting main loop
>     2024-05-22T17:33:01+02:00 {component="csi-plugin"}         I0522        1 controller.go:313] ListVolumes called with {MaxEntries:0 StartingToken: XXX_NoUnkeyedLiteral:{} XXX_unrecognized:[] XXX_sizecache:0}
>     2024-05-22T17:33:00+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 reflector.go:559] pkg/mod/k8s.io/client-go@v0.25.0/tools/cache/reflector.go:169: Watch close - *v1.CSIStorageCapacity total 4 items received
>     2024-05-22T17:32:55+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 reflector.go:559] pkg/mod/k8s.io/client-go@v0.25.0/tools/cache/reflector.go:169: Watch close - *v1.Service total 0 items received
>     2024-05-22T17:32:46+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 reflector.go:559] pkg/mod/k8s.io/client-go@v0.25.0/tools/cache/reflector.go:169: Watch close - *v1.Pod total 0 items received
>     2024-05-22T17:32:43+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 legacy.go:727] No candidates for scale down
>     2024-05-22T17:32:43+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 static_autoscaler.go:544] Starting scale down
>     2024-05-22T17:32:43+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 static_autoscaler.go:535] Scale down status: lastScaleUpTime=2024-05-22 14:20:23.13076564 +0000 UTC m=-3598.920416647 lastScaleDownDeleteTime=2024-05-22 14:20:23.13076564 +0000 UTC m=-3598.920416647 lastScaleDownFailTime=2024-05-22 14:20:23.13076564 +0000 UTC m=-3598.920416647 scaleDownForbidden=false scaleDownInCooldown=false
>     2024-05-22T17:32:43+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 pre_filtering_processor.go:57] Node scw-k8s-sharp-robinson-default-7cefec16593342e should not be processed by cluster autoscaler (no node group config)
>     2024-05-22T17:32:43+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 pre_filtering_processor.go:57] Node scw-k8s-sharp-robinson-default-bfb90f82c4b949c should not be processed by cluster autoscaler (no node group config)
>     2024-05-22T17:32:43+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 pre_filtering_processor.go:57] Node scw-k8s-sharp-robinson-default-e110ac268b5546d should not be processed by cluster autoscaler (no node group config)
>     2024-05-22T17:32:43+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 static_autoscaler.go:492] Calculating unneeded nodes
>     2024-05-22T17:32:43+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 static_autoscaler.go:445] No unschedulable pods
>     2024-05-22T17:32:43+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 filter_out_schedulable.go:87] No schedulable pods
>     2024-05-22T17:32:43+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 filter_out_schedulable.go:177] 0 pods marked as unschedulable can be scheduled.
>     2024-05-22T17:32:43+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 filter_out_schedulable.go:176] 0 pods were kept as unschedulable based on caching
>     2024-05-22T17:32:43+02:00 {component="kapsule-autoscaler"} I0522        1 filter_out_schedulable.go:137] Filtered out 0 pods using hints

Author: ```suggestion
```
